---
title: 'Mozzerella and Packing area'
date: '2018-08-21'
---

The final part of the Project Venice was to have the capability of producing mozzerella as well as cheddar as the client chose. The cheddar production line at this stage was working fine, the curd from vats will be sent through a huge 5m x 20m x 10m Cheddarmaster machine, salted and cut repeatedly, then went through 8 blockformers to be tightened and cut into blocks of cheese. 


The mozzerella making process was however a little more complicated. The curd needed to be cooked, stretched, and compressed repeatedly, then cut into small 2.5kg bricks which will be  cooled in a precise manner, by dropping it into a pool of water, then grabbing and pushing it gently using various mechanical arms, until it reaches the other side. Once cooled, the cheese will be sorted and packed into 10kg packets, and sent through a spiral freezer to flash freeze them. 


The process already sounded complicated enough, the actual automation process proved to be even more complicated. The cheese making machines were from an Italian vendor who spoke very little English, and the cheese packing/sealing machines were from a German vendor who also spoke little English. In order to interface with these machines, we had to communicate through drawings and PLC code rather than speaking in order to clarify our intentions. It also took a lot of persuation from us to let them release their PLC code so that the plant maintenance team can take charge of it in case of modifications in the future. The spiral freezer also had a lot of mechanical problems, causing blockage time to time. It took several batches of trial and error and many fixes to make sure the cheese will always pass through ok. 


When everything else was working, the packing conveyors later on ended up being problematic. This was the least looked area as our process engineers were more worried about cheese making, and we the automation team had the system prepared and tested in simulation, but did very little test was done with actual blocks of cheese. The sealing machines did not always release the cheese every 5 seconds as planned, which caused the cheese joining from 2 different conveyors often colliding with each other. Extra sensors had to be added in order to prevent this, watching the cheese carefully as they arrive to make sure no collision occurs, but we also had to balance the stability with production rates in order to meet the contracted rates to pass the handover test. It took many months of hard work and tough communication with various vendors to finally achieve the result we desired at the end. 